.\" Man page for statshed
.\" AIDEV-NOTE: This man page is included in both PyPI sdist and Debian packages
.TH STATSHED 1 "January 2026" "statshed 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
statshed \- command-line interface for StatShed status dashboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B statshed
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B statshed
is a command-line tool for interacting with the StatShed status dashboard.
It allows users to submit job status updates, check system health, list
groups and jobs, and configure timeout settings.
.PP
StatShed is a lightweight dashboard for tracking the status of periodic
tasks such as cron jobs, CI/CD pipelines, and backup processes.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-url " " \fIURL\fR
StatShed API URL. Overrides configuration file and environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-error output.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output in JSON format.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS submit
Submit a job status update.
.PP
.B statshed submit
.BR \-g " " \fIGROUP\fR
.BR \-j " " \fIJOB\fR
.BR \-s " " \fISTATUS\fR
[\fB\-m\fR \fIMESSAGE\fR]
[\fB\-\-strict\fR]
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-group " " \fIGROUP\fR
Group name (required).
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-job " " \fIJOB\fR
Job name (required).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-status " " \fISTATUS\fR
Status value: \fBsuccess\fR, \fBerror\fR, or \fBprogress\fR (required).
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-message " " \fIMESSAGE\fR
Optional status message.
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Exit with error code on failure. By default, errors are swallowed and the
command exits with code 0 for safe use in scripts with \fBset \-e\fR.
.SS health
Check overall system health.
.PP
.B statshed health
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
.PP
Returns exit code 0 if healthy, 1 if unhealthy.
.SS groups
List all groups with health summaries.
.PP
.B statshed groups
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
.SS jobs
List all jobs in a group.
.PP
.B statshed jobs
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
\fIGROUP_NAME\fR
.SS config
View or update global configuration.
.PP
.B statshed config
[\fB\-p\fR \fIMINUTES\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR \fIHOURS\fR]
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-progress\-timeout " " \fIMINUTES\fR
Set progress timeout in minutes.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-staleness\-timeout " " \fIHOURS\fR
Set staleness timeout in hours.
.PP
Without options, displays current configuration.
.SS group-config
View or update group-specific configuration.
.PP
.B statshed group-config
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
\fIGROUP_NAME\fR
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-progress\-timeout " " \fIMINUTES\fR
Set progress timeout override for this group.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-staleness\-timeout " " \fIHOURS\fR
Set staleness timeout override for this group.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-progress\-timeout
Reset progress timeout to global default.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-staleness\-timeout
Reset staleness timeout to global default.
.PP
Without options, displays current group configuration.
.SS completion
Generate shell completion script.
.PP
.B statshed completion
\fISHELL\fR
.PP
Where \fISHELL\fR is one of: \fBbash\fR, \fBzsh\fR, \fBfish\fR.
.PP
Install completions by redirecting output to the appropriate location:
.RS
.nf
\fBbash:\fR statshed completion bash > ~/.local/share/bash-completion/completions/statshed
\fBzsh:\fR  statshed completion zsh > ~/.zfunc/_statshed
\fBfish:\fR statshed completion fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/statshed.fish
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Health check returned unhealthy status.
.TP
.B 2
API error.
.TP
.B 3
Connection error.
.TP
.B 4
Timeout error.
.TP
.B 5
Configuration error.
.TP
.B 10
Invalid arguments.
.TP
.B 11
Resource not found.
.SH FILES
Configuration files are read in the following order (first found wins):
.TP
.I ./statshed.yaml
Current directory configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.config/statshed/statshed.yaml
User configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/statshed/statshed.yaml
System-wide configuration.
.PP
Example configuration:
.RS
.nf
url: http://localhost:7828
output_format: table
color: auto
timeout: 10

submit:
  syslog: false
  strict: false
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B STATSHED_URL
StatShed API URL. Overridden by \fB\-\-url\fR option. Overrides config file.
.TP
.B STATSHED_CONFIG
Path to configuration file. Overridden by \fB\-\-config\fR option.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set (to any value), disables colored output.
.SH EXAMPLES
Submit a successful job status:
.RS
.nf
statshed submit -g backups -j database -s success -m "Completed in 5m"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check system health:
.RS
.nf
statshed health
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all groups:
.RS
.nf
statshed groups
.fi
.RE
.PP
List jobs in a specific group:
.RS
.nf
statshed jobs backups
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use in a cron job with error reporting:
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/bash
statshed submit -g backups -j database -s progress
pg_dump mydb > /backups/mydb.sql
if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
    statshed submit -g backups -j database -s success
else
    statshed submit -g backups -j database -s error -m "Backup failed"
fi
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use JSON output for scripting:
.RS
.nf
statshed --json health | jq '.status'
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cron (8),
.BR systemd.timer (5)
.PP
Project homepage: https://github.com/statshed/statshed-cli
.SH AUTHOR
StatShed CLI was created by Sean.
.SH LICENSE
CC0-1.0 (Public Domain Dedication)
